<!-- loio0f617257db8a41dda47813fd33c7e238 -->

# Set Up Trust Between Corporate Identity Provider and SAP BTP

Use this procedure to configure the SAP BTP trust settings and to add your corporate identity provider.



## Context

> ### Remember:  
> SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment will sunset on **December 31, 2028**, subject to terms of customer or partner contracts.
> 
> For more information, see SAP Note [3351844](https://me.sap.com/notes/3351844).

> ### Tip:  
> **This documentation refers to SAP Business Technology Platform, Neo environment. If you are looking for documentation about other environments, see [SAP Business Technology Platform](https://help.sap.com/viewer/65de2977205c403bbc107264b8eccf4b/Cloud/en-US/6a2c1ab5a31b4ed9a2ce17a5329e1dd8.html "SAP Business Technology Platform (SAP BTP) is an integrated offering comprised of four technology portfolios: database and data management, application development and integration, analytics, and intelligent technologies. The platform offers users the ability to turn data into business value, compose end-to-end business processes, and build and extend SAP applications quickly.") :arrow_upper_right:.**



<a name="loio0f617257db8a41dda47813fd33c7e238__steps_tdr_gcq_p1b"/>

## Procedure

1.  Open the SAP BTP cockpit, select the region in which your subaccount is hosted, then select the global account that contains your subaccount, and then choose the tile of your subaccount. For more information about the regions, see [Regions and Hosts](https://help.sap.com/viewer/65de2977205c403bbc107264b8eccf4b/Cloud/en-US/350356d1dc314d3199dca15bd2ab9b0e.html).

2.  Choose *Security* \> *Trust* in the navigation.

3.  Choose the *Local Service Provider* tab, and then choose *Edit*.

4.  From the *Configuration Type* dropdown box, select *Custom*.

5.  Configure the signing key and the signing certificate as follows:

    -   If you want to use a signing key and a self-signed certificate automatically generated by the system, choose *Generate Key Pair*.
    -   If you have your own key and certificate generated from an external application and signed by a trusted CA\), you can use them instead of using the ones generated by the SAP BTP. To do so, copy the Base64-encoded signing key in the *Signing Key* field, and then copy the textual content of the certificate in the *Signing Certificate* field.

6.  From the *Principal Propagation* dropdown box, select *Enabled*.

7.  Choose *Save*.

8.  Choose the *Get Metadata* link to download the SAP BTP metadata for your subaccount.

9.  Save the metadata of your corporate identity provider on your local file system as an XML file. You will need this metadata in **Step 10**.

10. In the cockpit, choose *Security* \> *Trust* \> *Application Identity Provider*. Then choose *Add Trusted Identity Provider*. In the *General* tab, upload the SAP BTP metadata XML file \(from **Step 9**\) in the *Metadata File* field.

11. Choose *Save*.

12. Configure the SAML 2.0 trust with the subaccount on your corporate identity provider side. To do that, you have to upload the metadata XML file of your subaccount in SAP BTP that you have downloaded in **Step 8** in your corporate identity provider.




<a name="loio0f617257db8a41dda47813fd33c7e238__result_udr_gcq_p1b"/>

## Results

The trust will be established automatically upon registration on both the SAP BTP and identity provider side.

**Related Information**  


[ID Federation with the Corporate Identity Provider](https://help.sap.com/viewer/65de2977205c403bbc107264b8eccf4b/Cloud/en-US/dc618538d97610148155d97dcd123c24.html)

